# Landsat-8 Land Surface Temperature downscaling using Sentinel-2 in Google Earth Engine
This code repository is an attachment for the article in Remote Sensing: Onačillová, K., Gallay, M., Péliová, A., Paluba, D., Tokarčík, O., Laubertová, D. 2022: Combining Landsat 8 and Sentinel 2 data in Google Earth Engine to derive higher resolution land surface temperature maps in urban environment. Remote Sensing. The repository contains a folder "javascript_codes" where you can find:
  - A JavaScript Google Earth Engine (GEE) code to downscale (sharpen) the Land Surface Temperature (LST) derived from Landsat 8 thermal sensing using the spectral bands of Sentinel-2 
  
  ## About the Landsat-8 Land Surface Temperature downscaling using Sentinel-2 in GEE
  This algorithm aims to downscale the coarse spatial resolution (100/30 m) Landsat 8 LST to finer spatial resolution (10 m) for more accurate mapping of LST. Three different indices, namely the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), built-up index (NDBI), and water index (NDWI) were used for disaggregation of Landsat LST (100/30 m) to 10 m Sentinel-2 spatial resolution using linear regression. The algorithm was developed in the cloud-based platform Google Earth Engine (GEE) using Landsat-8 and Sentinel-2 open access data. We conclude that the proposed downscaling model, by addressing the linear relationship of LST at coarse and fine spatial resolutions, can be successfully applied to produce high-resolution LST maps suitable for studies of the urban thermal environment at local scales. The performance was validated by the adjusted R2 returned at the stage of model development as well as by the validation of downscaled LST results using data logger measurements at 6 sites in the Košice city, Slovakia, to represent different types of land cover.
  
  ## Methodology:
  First, the region of interest (“ROI”) is defined to process the date range and maximum cloud cover for the Landsat 8 and Sentinel-2 satellite imagery. The ROI is created using the Geometry Tools in the GEE to allow users for delineating their own geometric features, such as polygons, to be applied in the analyses. (Note: The default setting of the GEE tool is focused on Košice City, Slovakia).
</b>Based on this information, the main module loads the respective images of Landsat Surface Reflectance (SR) and Sentinel-2 Level 2A (L2A) collections that meet the input criteria. The users then select two images from the resulting list (visible in the Console) – one image from the Landsat 8 SR collection and one from the Sentinel-2 L2A collection and enter their exact ID. We recommend choosing datasets, which were acquired on the same day. These images are used to compute spectral indices NDVI, NDBI, and NDWI for Landsat 8 in 30 m resolution (NDVIL8, NDBIL8, NDWIL8) and Sentinel-2 in 10 m resolution, respectively. The NDVI L8 is also converted to Fractional Vegetation (FV) values, which are then used to derive emissivity values.
</b>The LST is then calculated at 30 m resolution using the Landsat 8 thermal band (B10) converted to brightness temperature in degrees Celsius (LSTL8). Then, the linear regression model between LSTL8 and the spectral indices NDVIL8, NDBIL8, NDWIL8 is used to calculate regression coefficients. Finally, these regression coefficients are used to calculate the downscaled LST using Sentinel-2 spectral indices NDVI, NDBI, and NDWI in 10 m resolution. Regression residuals are resampled and added back to the downscaled LST. Also, Landsat 8 and Sentinel-2 natural color images (RGB) are generated to compare with the final LST layers.

## Outputs of the algorithm
There are three different output types of the algorithm: (1) the main output is the downscaled LST 10 m with residuals, (2) bivariate scatter plots of LSTL8 vs. NDVIL8, NDBIL8, NDWIL8, (3) downscaling regression model. In the GEE code, the user will obtain the following outputs:
  - LST 10 m with residuals - final downscaled LST with regression residuals in 10 m spatial resolution
  - LST 10 m (no residuals) - downscaled LST in 10 m spatial resolution (without added regression residuals)
  - Landsat 8 LST – Landsat 8 Land Surface Temperature in 30 m spatial resolution
  - Landsat 8 LST regression residuals – regression residuals of LST computed as the difference between model estimation and the corresponding observation by Landsat 8 at 30 m resolution 
  - Sentinel-2 RGB – true color composite for Sentinel-2
  - Landsat 8 RGB –  true color composite for Landsat 8
